Hello and welcome back to the course on Tablo.
And in today's tutorial we will learn how to create an area chart.
And also I will show you a cool feature which you can use in your daughter discovery processes.
So we'll start off of the feature right away in front of us here we've got the chart that we created
last time.
And by no means is this a final product.
It can go into any report and it's way too cluttered to present any insightful information.
But at the same time you might find yourself with a chart like this or something similar while you're
doing your daughter's discovery process while you're looking for those anomalies trends and patterns
you sometimes will find yourself in a very very cluttered chart which you are trying to interrogate
to find those answers.
So here what we have is the representation of unemployment long term unemployment in the U.S. between
2005 and 2015.
So we've got this time line here.
It is shown to us by month.
It is the median of the unemployment and the granularity level is gender plus age.
So that means for every month there is several age groups seven age groups times two genders so for
every month there's 14 observations that are present on this chart.
And as you can see from the college in here men are represented in blue circles and women are presented
with orange circles.
So what happens if you want to interrogate one of these genders more specifically and understand exactly
what's happening there.
Well one way is to restructure the chart and just leave that one gender.
But there is another great approach which is called highlighting which helps you achieve the same result
but much faster.
And all you have to do is go to your college and just click on the gender that you're interested in.
So if you're interested in looking at women you just click on women and they go so that is a representation
of female unemployment for that same period for those same age groups and also same thing you can do
with male.
Just click on men and you'll see that the circles associated with male and employment are highlighted
for you right away.
And a lot of people forget or don't even know about this feature and therefore they spend too much time
restructuring their charts.
But in reality if you're just doing data discovery and you just want those answers quickly and you want
to and decide exactly what's happening it's a very handy thing to know and to have.
So definitely look into that.
Well I'll just share another example now.
Let's look at age for instance we know that we have age in the chart as level of granularity.
And the way we got there is we get dragged into the detail shelf.
So it is increasing or making the charge more granular.
But at the same time it's not represented anywhere on the chart.
It's not a color it's not a shape it's nowhere.
So if we want to be able to highlight age we need to give it some sort of representation visual representation
or chart.
And so because colors are used Let's drag age into shape right away you can see that.
Now for every single age group that we have we've got a new shape and we would want to highlight say
35 to 44 years old and we would press here naturally but nothing happens.
So as we click around nothing happens nothing has been halted but that can be easily fixed.
You just have to go to this.
But I'm not here which says highlight selected items and if you click on that now it will allow you
to use this legend to highlight the items that you're interested in.
And as we click through you can see that we're focusing on the different unemployments of different
age groups.
So once again very handy feature to know about and to use in your data discovery.
Definitely take it into your data science arsenal.
All right.
So what are we going to do now is we're going to create an area chart.
Let's move back to just our original line chart so I'm going to take age and gender out can change this
two line and instead of median and employment we're going to look at the sum of unemployment.
So now we're seeing the total unemployment or long term unemployment for every single month in the U.S.
between 2005 and 2015.
So the chart ranges from 0 million to 7 million.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to take age.
So the age group will drag it into color.
And what that will do is it'll give us many line charts.
Now the charge ranges from zero to one point six million and every single line chart or line is here
is independent.
And so for instance like here you can see that for 35 to 44 years old people in April 2010.
That was one point thirty eight million.
And once again we can use the college to highlight the lives that we want to get.
So that's handy.
But at the same time this visual is not very useful.
You can it's not easy to understand.
And as we discussed it is our job as a scientists to make these visualizations very friendly and very
easy to interrogate.
For people who are looking at them so what are we going to do now is we going to change this facilitation
to a different type.
And one way of doing it is just trying to explore and finding out what visualization is going to work
in this particular case.
So for that you can use the Show Me function and you could just click around.
So for instance you look at a tree map is a tree map going to work and right away you can see that even
though it looks bright quite hypnotising is not going to work for a report.
You can't really tell much from this is.
How about a bubble chart.
Once again very beautiful in terms of art.
This is probably 10 out of 10 but in terms of insightfulness not really can really tell much from here.
Too much information being thrown at me.
So you can just click around and find the best one that you like but the one I suggest going with in
this case is an area chart so we're going to click on that and right away you can see how this area
chart has been created for us and it looks pretty incredible and very I think insightful and we'll learn
how to make it even better just now.
But before we do one I'm going to do that we're going to show you how to create it from scratch or your
photos show me button.
So I'm just going to kind of close that and I'm just going to cancel these steps and go back to a line
chart.
So what you want to do here is if you go to the drop down here instead of line just go to area and what
you'll see is now all of these unemployment rates have been stacked on top of each other.
So look at this axis here.
I'll just go back to the chart Sub-Zero click here.
You can see here that it only goes up to 1.6 million and that's because each one of these lines is independent.
Now if I go to area it goes all the way up to 7 million.
Now that's because they're been stacked up and they're stacked the total increases here as well.
So the actual unemployment for different groups different age groups is given by this pop up over here.
So for instance in this case it's 1.5 6 million unemployment in that month for 25 to 34 year olds so
that's how you create an area chart.
And once again you can still highlight with color.
So remember about that.
That's a very powerful feature.
And what else we can do here is we probably can add some labels to make it really critical So we're
going to take age press Kontrol and all drag it into label.
And now you can see that the label has been added and once again we can.
As we know already we can format these labels and maybe make it bold.
And as you can see this is already starting to look much much better.
There's no label for the top one.
That's because it probably just doesn't fit.
But it kind of makes sense they're all like a descending order going downwards.
And so that sums it up for us for today.
We learned how to create an area chart and we learned about highlighting in the next tutorial.
I will show you how to create a filter.
We will use gender as a filter and I will show you also will recap a little bit on the level of detail
and granularity and highlighting as well.
So I'll look for you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.